
<p>
SUDOANG project is part of the Sudoe Programme 2014-2020 included within the European Territorial 
Cooperation initiative (Interreg), which promotes transnational cooperation and supports regional development 
in Southwestern Europe. It is financed through the European Regional Development Fund Regulation contributing 
to the delivery of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth. The programme has five 
priority axis and SUDOANG project aligns with the Environment and resource efficiency concern, which aims not only 
to protect the marked rural isolation, the great biodiversity, and the extremely rich natural and cultural heritage 
of the Sudoe space, but also to be encouraged as to making use of it and contributing to local development in a sustainable 
manner by joint strategies for the protection and restoration of ecosystems and the integrated management of resources 
and natural areas.
<p>
Indeed, the objective of SUDOANG project is promoting concerted and sustainable European eel management in the 
Sudoe space. The motivation of the project is that the European eel is outside safe biological limits (ICES, 2020*) 
and critically endangered (IUCN, 2014*). It is threatened by climate change, barriers to migration, pollution, unsustainable 
exploitation and illegal fishing and trade. Although Member States developed eel management plans in 2010 to accomplish with 
the regulation (EC 1100/2007*), the stock has shown no signs of recovery. In fact, the management of the stock is hampered 
by various factors: there is a lack of knowledge about the species to obtain a reliable estimation of biological indicators. 
Moreover, these indicators are obtained following different methodologies depending on the country and even the region, and 
in many cases are based on extrapolations of values from other regions. This means that the European eel, even being a single 
stock, is managed at national and regional level as if it constituted isolated populations that meet the administrative boundaries. In 
addition, the lack of dialogue among the diversity of the actors involved in eel conservation both at different scale, i.e., local, 
regional, and national, and typology, i.e., scientists, managers, fishermen and NGOs, suggests that implemented management measures 
do not add up the common goal of the species recovery.
<p>
In response to that, SUDOANG project includes members from research institutes, universities, conservation agencies and citizen 
participation foundations through Sudoe area in association with administrations, fishermen, conservation societies and control forces. 
Their commitment in the project lies in achieving joint tools and methods to support the conservation of the European eel and its habitat 
in the Sudoe area, to provide them to managers so that they make decisions based on better scientific evidence and in a more concerted manner. 
SUDOANG project explores as well new management approaches that will result in a proposed platform of governance to achieve concerted and effective 
management of eel that is not possible with the current approach.
<br>
